---
title: International Cooperation
permalink: /about-us/international-cooperation
description: ""
---
**International Conferences**

The Singapore Prison Service’s (SPS) regular engagements with its international counterparts provide opportunities for SPS to share its latest correctional capabilities, and learn from other leading jurisdictions. These knowledge exchanges enable SPS to sharpen its capabilities for better correctional outcomes and organisational results. 

The [Asian and Pacific Conference of Correctional Administrators (APCCA)](http://www.apcca.org/) which is a forum for government officials responsible for prison or correctional administration in the Asia Pacific region, and the [International Corrections and Prisons Association (ICPA)](http://icpa.org/) which is an international association spanning government agencies, academic groups, NGOs and private sector service providers.

Since 2002, SPS has served as the APCCA Joint-Secretariat with Hong Kong Correctional Services Department. In 2017, then SPS Commissioner of Prisons, Mr Desmond Chin was elected to sit on the ICPA Board of Directors and stepped down in 2020 upon his retirement from SPS. Current Commissioner of Prisons, Ms Shie Yong Lee was elected to the Board in October 2020 for a 4-year term. At these two correctional associations, SPS seeks to share its experiences in corrections, spanning across operations, staff training, as well as rehabilitation and reintegration.

Apart from these correctional conferences, SPS is also involved in key events organised by the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC). At the invitations from UNODC, SPS has contributed to various UN Expert Group Meetings and provided inputs for handbooks covering topics from prison management to rehabilitation since 2016. In 2018, SPS and UNODC jointly organised a training workshop on correctional rehabilitation for 63 participants from various correctional administrations across 16 countries in Asia-Pacific. In 2021, SPS and YRSG organised a virtual event at the 64th United Nations Commission on Narcotic Drugs, titled “Inspiring Community Action in the Rehabilitation and Reintegration of Offenders”, that was attended by over 125 international and local participants.

SPS’s sharing of the [Yellow Ribbon Project](http://www.yellowribbon.org.sg/) (YRP) at various international forums has shown the world a tenable working model to alleviate the social stigma faced by ex-offenders, and create an ecosystem which is ready to accept them after their release. Several jurisdictions and non-state organisations in countries such as Fiji and the Czech Republic have been inspired by our work and embarked on or adapted their brand of YRP.

SPS also initiated the biennial Asian Prisons Lockdown Challenge (APLC), a tactical competition for correctional services in the Asia-Pacific region to participate in and exchange best practices in the field of operational knowledge and tactical skills. The APLC is the first of its kind in the Asia-Pacific region. It encompasses competition segments which test participants’ tactical know-how through a series of mentally and physically challenging scenarios over 3 days in Singapore. Concurrent tactical workshops helm by professional trainers are also conducted during the event to expose participants to the latest developments in tactical response in correctional settings. Since its inauguration in 2010, the APLC has seen participation grow from 3 to 10 countries with over 70 participants at the latest edition in 2018. SPS looks forward to organising the APLC once the pandemic situation improves.